### My First Time Using Oxygen

I was assigned a few sections of Charlotte Perkin’s, “The Yellow Wall-paper” to code using TEI or Text Encoding Initiative. I had to use TEI in a program called Oxygen which is an XML (eXtensive Markup language) in order to markup portions of the reading. For this assignment, I was assigned pages 16, 17, 18, and 19 of the work. 

Before initially coding in Oxygen, we were each assigned different portions of the text. It was very accessible having the text presented in a Google Doc since this made it easier to markup. A few things I looked for as I annotated were page beginnings, paragraphs, weird spaces, em-dashes, crossed out words and other features. By analyzing the text, I noticed that I mostly needed to add em-dashes and note weird spaces. I feel that by adding comments to our own Google Doc made the process easier when it came time to coding in Oxygen. 

When I first downloaded Oxygen and the TEI file, I was instantly intimidated. Although I took Introduction to Computer Science last year, I would not consider myself to be technologically savvy. I kept reminding myself to stay calm and that further instruction would only help my understanding of Oxygen. Once we had the class dedicated to using Oxygen, I felt more at ease and had enjoyed writing the code from my selected readings.

I found myself struggling with underlining and crossing out words during the exercise. I became frustrated with this aspect and took a little break just to clear my mind. My problem was I had been copying and pasting the tags from the course syllabus. I decided to try just typing them and this resolved the technical issue. In Oxygen, there’s a little box on the sidebar that turns red when the code is invalid and green when the code is valid. This tool reassured my nerves that I was doing the project correctly. As a beginner, it was nice knowing when you made a mistake rather than constantly being curious about whether the code was correct or not.

Overall, my experience with Oxygen went pretty smoothly with a few bumps along the road. When I first started this class and read that we had to do the TEI coding project I grew frightened. With anything, practice is key and I feel that this also applies to coding. The more time I spent trying to perfect the code, the more I could fluently construct it.
