### Grant Reflection Blog

My project involves the creation of a virtual exhibition on female Bolivian writers. The idea of bringing these artists’ poems and short stories to life interests me because I will be including their works in a 3-dimensional way which makes this experience more engaging as people browse and tour around the museum. What inspired me to center my focus on Bolivia in particular is my ethnic background. I am half Bolivian and I wanted to incorporate female voices especially since the media doesn’t cover much of this region in regards to issues surfacing gender inequality and talents such as writing. The thing that really interests me about my project is that not many people have created a virtual gallery type format in showcasing writers. When I was browsing around in ArtSteps, I found that many projects were dedicated to art rather than any written works. 

After much consideration and contemplation, I had invented the project inside my head and chose a topic that drew close to home. I would say that my idea on the project has remained fairly consistent throughout. There weren’t too many projects that I’ve found that have been similar to mine, but I stumbled across “The Women Writers Project'', The Arte Público Press Digital, and the Electrical Literature Organization.  What I’ve noticed is that they all touch upon similar themes of my project such as gender and region, but they lack the interactive component that my project will introduce. During the process of writing my grant, I realized that there are a lot of parts that make up the project. First, you have to think about its importance, the technology, and the budget as just some beginner level things to consider. The process of creating my own project made me really happy for it channeled many of my passions and ideas into the digital world. 



Through taking this course, I feel like I have a better understanding of the field itself. When I first started this course, I thought the term always referred to technological advancements in different fields of study. As of now, Digital Humanities means to me: the use of technology that can be applied to varying subjects with the humanities. There had been a few readings from class that had helped me form my definition. Jason Heppler’s, “What is Digital Humanities' ' helped me better understand the term for the feature of refreshing the page had offered diverse viewpoints and definitions to the term itself. Another class reading that helped enhance my understanding was Kathleen Fitzpatrick’s, “The Humanities, Done Digitally” because I really liked her definition. She states that DH is, “a nexus of fields within which scholars use computing technologies to investigate the kinds of questions that are traditional to the humanities''. In my opinion, this sentence sums up the essence of the term and its functions.

When taking this class, I internally dreaded when seeing that one of our assignments involved coding. However, I actually really enjoyed this project because it made me analyze the text underneath the surface level. Although I was initially intimidated by using Oxygen, I ended up learning a lot about coding and had fun creating it. I feel like this process made me grow as a reader because before this class I loved writing more than reading. With the Digital Humanities, it is important to dissect and analyze all of the details to know and better understand what you’re working with. In regards to writing, I feel like I’ve improved in the area of reviewing projects. Looking at the different projects made me attentive to detail and noting the functionalities helped strengthen my blog posts overall. 
